Article 1: http://dl.nsf.gov.lk/bitstream/handle/1/6320/Jnsf-37(1)-41.pdf?sequence=2Links to an external site.

Summary: The goal of this study is to see whether hazard ration, relative risk, and other estimates made by the Cox Proportional Hazards model are biased when the basic assumptions of the model are violated. This is very important because whenever regression models are run, not just Cox Proportional Hazards models, many times we take for granted that the assumptions of the model are met. This can lead to incorrect conclusions and predictions. The Cox model assumes that the hazard ratios remain constant over time. If this is violated, then the model may falsely suggest that a variable is significant or vice versa. This study showed an example where the hazards ratio is not constant over time. An example was with the age of smokers and the RR as age increased. As there was an increase in cumulative smoking exposure, the RR decrease after 50. It was also addressed how in the Cox PH model, there is increased emphasis on the Relative Risk. This is convenient because it doesn't require estimating background information. They first examined survival curves by smoking status and then compared a simulated data set could define mortality to a real data set. They found that single minded focus on PH models have hindered the development of other models in epidemiologic data. Sometimes hazard functions, rather than the rate of hazard functions may be a better alternative. 

Article 2: https://bmcmusculoskeletdisord.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12891-021-04379-2Links to an external site.

Summary: The goal of this paper is very similar to the first study. It investigates, in detail, the reporting of the model details as well as the model assumptions with total joint arthroplasty studies. Nearly 80% of the Cox proportional hazards were reported inadequately. However, it is still amongst the most used models. One of the solutions was to hire statisticians to review the process and make sure reproducible results are created. 
